Okay, so
just as layout.svelte files create UI for
every child route layout server js
files load data for every child route.
So suppose we'd like to add a more
posts sidebar to our blog posts page.
We could return summaries from the load
function here that powers the blog page.
In the same way that we're returning
it from the page.server.js
that powers the index page,
but that would be repetitive.
Instead, what we're gonna do is
rename this file to layout.server.js.
And you'll notice that this
page continues to work.
It's still able to access
the summaries state that's being
returned from the layout load function.
And so now if you go to
the individual posts page,
we have a layout already
scaffold out here.
We can add a sidebar inside here.
Just below the main element.
Give it a title of More posts,
then we'll create an unordered list,
and then we're going to iterate
over data.summaries as slug title
I'm just gonna copy the code on
the left into this component.
And you can see that we're now able to
render the summaries in the sidebar on
the blog page,
as well as the blog index page.
And what's neat about this is that,
as we navigate between these posts,
we're not having to go back to
the server and reload those summaries.
Because SvelteKit is aware that even
though the post page has changed,
the layout has not changed, and so we
don't need to go and re-fetch that data.
If you do need to control when
that data is invalidated there
are techniques to do that and
we'll learn about those later on.